---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-03-25T17:22:11.666Z'
dateModified: '2016-03-25T17:21:48.393Z'
title: ''
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2016-03-25-753dd382-d46e-4ee7-ad4a-8ec8ce28d9ba.md
published: true
url: 753dd382-d46e-4ee7-ad4a-8ec8ce28d9ba/index.html
_type: Article

---
Scottish actor Stuart Bowman stars in BBC2's most talked about acquisition of the year, Anglo-French drama 'Versailles'. Set against a backdrop of power, love, betrayal and war, the 10 part period drama examines a defining period of French history. 

Cast in the lead role of 'Bontemps', valet and closest advisor of King Louis XIV, Stuart joins an international roster including Brit actors George Blagden and Anna Brewster. The series is due to kick off on BBC2 (TX TBC) this spring. Season 2 has already been commissioned for Canal + and Stuart is currently filming in Paris. 

Born in Dundee, his first brush with the arts was working at the Royal Lyceum in Edinburgh as a teenager. It was here that he met actor Billy McColl who encouraged him to apply to drama college. Stuart subsequently went on to train at the Mountview Theatre School in London before returning home to Scotland to become a regular member of the Glasgow Citizens Theatre under the genius triumvirate of directors Philip Prowse, Giles Havergal and Robert David McDonald. He then began to catch the eye of top London directors and producers, and soon moved back to London to focus on TV & film projects following a successful decade on Scotland's top stages. 

Best known for his role in BAFTA winning Scottish comedy sitcom Gary Tank Commander as 'Sergeant Thomson', Stuart has also appeared in a multitude of TV shows including The Musketeers, The Increasingly Poor Decisions of Todd Margaret, Taggart, Suspects, Minder, Holby City, Doctors, A Touch of Frost, River City, and The Bill.
On the big screen, he's appeared in Young Adam, alongside Ewan McGregor and Tilda Swinton, The Wisdom of Crocodiles, opposite Jude Law and Timothy Spall, Sunset Song with Agyness Deyn and Peter Mullan, and Slow West with Michael Fassbender. His most recent stage work includes Macbeth as 'MacDuff' at Shakespeare's Globe in 2013 (directed by Eve Best), The Marriage of Figaro at the Royal Lyceum Theatre in Edinburgh, and Pygmalion at the Garrick. He was nominated as best actor in the 2012 CATS awards for the one man show 'Watching the Detective'. 

Stuart has travelled the globe racking up a collection of once in a lifetime experiences from salsa dancing and surfing down the Pacific coast of Central America to hut building with Aid India after the 2004 tsunami. He is father to sons Tavish and Sholto and his family now split their time between Paris and London's Hackney.